# Hog: HDL on Git
List files, IP location, git ignore
Always recreate project when adding new file

## IPBus functionality
XML file location
address map location

## HDL repository methodology
This repository (Hog) should be included as a submodule into your HDL repository.
Hog relies on the following assumptions:
- Hog must be in the root path of your repository
- The directory name must be "Hog"
Let's assume the your HDL repository is called Repo, then Hog must be in:
```
Repo/Hog
```
HDL source files, together with constraint files, simulation files can be located anywhere in the repository, even if a directory structure that reflects the __libraries__ in the project is advised.
A Hog-based repository can contain many projects. You should use many projects in the same repository when they share a significant amount of code: e.g. many FPGAs on the same board. If this is not the case you may think of having different repositories. In this case, you may include the little amount of shared code as a git submodule, that is also handled by Hog.
Hog is a simple project, meant to be useful to speed up work. It is not extremely configuralbe: the scripts rely on special directory structure and file naming to be respected as explained in the following paragraphs.

### Top directory
The __Top__ directory is located in the root folder of the repository:
```
Repo/Top
```
It contains one directory for every project (say proj_1, proj_2, proj_3) in the repository:
```
Repo/Top/proj_1
Repo/Top/proj_2
Repo/Top/proj_3
```
Each of these directories must contain:
- the top vhdl file of the project
- the tcl file that generates the project
They must be named as follows:
```
Repo/Top/proj_1/proj_1.tcl
Repo/Top/proj_1/top_proj_1.vhd
```
A directory named _list_ must be in the __Top__ directory as well. This directory contains the list files which in turn contain the filenames to be added to the _proj_1_ project.
There are 4 kinds of list files, depending on the extension: src, sub, sim, con.
#### .src files
HDL files used for synthesis taken from the repository. HDL files coming from one .src list-file, are  included into the Vivado project in the same library, named after the .src file itself. For example if we have a lib_1.src file in our list directory, containing 5 filenames inside, like this:
```
../../lib_1/hdl/file1.vhd
../../lib_1/hdl/file2.vhd
../../lib_1/hdl/file3.vhd
```
they will be included into the Vivado project in the lib_1 library, so for example in VHDL to use them in the top file you should use the following syntax:

```vhdl
library lib_1
use lib_1.all

...

u_1 : entity lib_1.a_component_in_lib1
port map(
  clk => clk,
din => din,
dout => dout
):
```
Properties, like VHDL 2008 compatibility, can be specified afer the file name in the list file, separated by any number of spaces. If _file_3.vhd_  requires VHDL 2008, for example, you should specify it like this:
```
../../lib_1/hdl/file1.vhd 
../../lib_1/hdl/file2.vhd
../../lib_1/hdl/file3.vhd 2008
```

#### .sub files
HDL files used for synthesis taken from git submodules in the project.
#### .sim files
HDL files used for simulation only.
#### .con files
Constraint files

An example of list files for _proj_1_ is listed here:
```
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/lib_a.src
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/lib_b.src
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/lib_c.src
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/lib_a.sim
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/lib_b.sim
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/sub_1.sub
Repo/Top/proj_1/list/xdc.con
```

### Git submodules
Hog can handle Git submodules. The must be placed anywhere in your repository, but it is advised to place them in the root directory. Subbose that you have 2 submodules called _sub_1_ and _sub_2_:
```
Repo/Top/sub_1
Repo/Top/sub_2
```
To add files from a submodule to your Project you must list them in a .sub list file. This is to explain Hog that those files are taken from a submodule rather than from a library belonging to the main HDL repository. Hog will not try to evaluate the version of those files, but it will evaluate the git SHA of the submodule.

### doxygen
The doxygen directory contains the files used to generate the HDL documentation.
A file named _doxygen.conf_ should be in this directory, together with all the files needed to generate your doxygen documentation.
Hog works with Doxygen version 1.8.13 ore later.

### Auto-generated directories
The following directories are generated at different stages of library compilation or synthesis/implementation time.
These directories should never be committed to the repository, for this reason they are listed in the .gitingore file.
You can always delete any of these directory with no bog consequences: they can always be regenerated by Hog scripts.

#### VivadoProjects
When you generate a project with Hog, it will create a sub-directory here. When everything is generated,  this directory contains one subdirectory for each project in the repository, containing the Vivado project-file. The name of the sub-directory and of the project file are always matching. In our case:
```
Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_1/proj_1.xpr
Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_2/proj_2.xpr
Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_3/proj_3.xpr
```
The _Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_3/_ directory also contains Vivado automatically generated files, among which the Runs directory:
```
Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_1/proj_1.runs/
```
That contains one subfolder for every Vivado run: alle the IPs in your project, the default Vivado synthesis run (synth_1) and implementation run (impl_1).
Hog will also copy ipbus XMLs and generated bitfiles into _Repo/VivadoProjects/proj_1/proj_1.runs/_ at synthesis/implementation time.

#### ModelsimLib
Modelsim compiled libraries will be placed here